# The Influence of Market Dynamics on Retail Investor Attention

This repository contains the data and code for the following article:

***Symons-Hicks, J., 2023. The Influence of Market Dynamics on Retail Investor Attention. UCL Journal of Economics, 2(1).***

https://doi.org/10.14324/111.444.2755-0877.1611

---

## Paper Abstract

Retail investors have become increasingly active in global markets over the past several years. However, the factors that drive retail investors to focus on particular stocks are unclear. Using a sample of UK FTSE 100 stocks, this paper analyses whether stock volatility, liquidity, returns, and trading volume have the power to attract the attention of UK retail investors, measured using the Google Search Volume Index. Overall, this paper finds positive relationships between three of the dynamics (volatility, returns, and daily trading volume) and increased retail investor attention. Greater stock illiquidity also coincides with an increase in the Google Search Volume Index, although this may be due to liquidity-impacting events. When conditioning on stocks by quartiles of market capitalisation, I find that the effects of returns and trading volume are greater in magnitude for the top 25% of stocks.

---

## Repository Organization

The repository is organized into the following directories and files:

### 📂 Code

- **`RI_Dynamics_Attention_Code_Revision.do`**  
  Stata script containing commands for:
  - Formatting variables
  - Merging pricing and attention data
  - Running regression analyses

### 📂 Data

- **`FTSE_PricingData_Full_Clean_Py.dta`**  
  Cleaned FTSE 100 pricing data.

- **`Google_Trends_Stock_Symbols_Clean.dta`**  
  Google Search Volume Index (SVI) data, including:
  - Week indicators
  - Noisy dummy variable

### 📂 LogFiles

- **`ET_All_Models_Output.smcl`**  
  Stata log file with regression analysis outputs generated by `RI_Dynamics_Attention_Code_Revision.do`.

- **`ET_All_Models_Output.pdf`**  
  PDF version of the Stata log file `ET_All_Models_Output.smcl`.

## Usage

To replicate the analysis:

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/James-SymonsHicks/market-dynamics-retail-attention.git
   ```

2. **Open the Code File**  
  Navigate to the `/Code` folder and open `RI_Dynamics_Attention_Code_Revision.do` in Stata.

3. **Run Code**  
  Run `RI_Dynamics_Attention_Code_Revision.do`. This file will set directories and import data.  
  It requires that the current directory after opening the code is `market-dynamics-retail-attention/Code`.

## Requirements

- **Tools:**  
  The regression analysis code uses Stata. Ensure you have an appropriate version installed.

- **Data files:**  
  Data files directly contain all necessary datasets for replication.

---

## Contact

For any questions or issues, please contact [James Symons-Hicks](mailto:j.symons-hicks@lse.ac.uk).

---
